Binary ( 128 - 64 - 32 - 16 - 8 - 4 - 2 - 1 ) : 01101010 
Decimal ( everyday life ): 106  
Hex ( Hexadecimal ) ( Take decimal and divide by 16 until you get a remainder, amount of times you can divide the decimal is on the left, the remainder is on the right ) : 6A
ASCII ( American Standard Code for Information Interchange ) character : j


0 is off 
1 is on 

Binary : 01001000 
Decimal : 72 
Hex : 48 
Input : Output 
  0   |  False 
  1   |  True 
And (Conjuntion) (Both have to be 1) (If one person says 0 or no the it is false)
Or  (One or the other) (At least one 1) (Only false if all are 0)
Is (Identify) (Is "a" true or false) 
Not (Negation) (Is "a" not true, the opposite)


OS 
File Systems: 1 
Shell 
Kernal (Kind of like the project manager, controls processes) 
        Bios 
Hardware (Apple microphone issue) 

                                                     NOTES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ifconfig - Displays the current configuration for a network interface when no optional parameters are supplied.
ip – Address to a network interface and or configure network interface parameters on Linux operating systems.
traceroute - Track in real-time pathway taken by a packet on an IP network from a source to destination. 
tracepath - Trace the path from the orgin to destination.
ping - Troubleshoot connectivity, reachability, nmae the resolution. 
netstat - Generates displays that show network status and protocol statostics. 
ss - Provides detailed information about network sockets and connections. 
dig - Flexible tool for interrogating DNS server names. 
nslookup - Queries internet domain name servers in two modes.
route - View and manipulate the IP routing table in Unix-like and Microsoft operating systems and also in IBM OS/2 and ReactOS.
host - Look up a variety of information available through the DNS. 
arp - Display the Ip address to MAC address mappings that a system has built so that it doesn't have to fetch the same information repeatedly, discover and display details about systems on your network. 
iwconfig - Display and change the parameters of the network interface which are specific to the wireless connection. 
hostname - Name of the computer will be displayed. 
curl - Command line tool that enables data exchange between device and a server through a terminal. 
wget - Retrieve or download files from the internet.
mtr - Combines traceroute and ping, common for testing internet speed. 
whois - Tries to reach ARPANET host internic.net where it examines a user-name database to obtain information. 
ifplugstatus - Check the status of Ethernet network interfaces and determine whether a cable is plugged into a specific interface. 
iftop - Moniters network traffic and displays a table of current bandwidth usage. 
tcpdump - Capture and analyze network traffic.
IP address (IPv4) - Internet Protocall 4, the fourth version. 
Subnet Masks - A 32 but number created by setting host bits to all 0s and setting netowrk bits to all 1s.
Gateway - A network node used in telecommunications that connect two networks with different transmission protocals together.
DNS - Name Domain System, turns NDS into IP addresses wich allow browsers to get websites and other resources.
What is a network switch? - Forwards data packets between devices, switches send packets directly to devices rather than sending thek to networks like a router does.
What is a network router? - A network router connects two or more packet switched networks.
What are access points? - A networking device that allows wireless-capable devices to connect to a wired network.
MAC address - A unique 12-character alphanumeric attribute that is used to identify individual electronic devices on a network.
What are ports? - Virtual places within a operating system where network connets start and end. 
Types of networks (WAN,LAN,PAN,MAN,VPN):
	WAN (Wide area network) - Technology that connects your offices, data centers, cloud applications, and soud storage together.
	LAN (Local area network) - Collection of devices in one physical location. 
	PAN (Personal area network) - Connects electronic devices within a users immediate area.
	MAN (metropolitan area network) - A network that is larger then a single building local area network but is located in the a single geographic area that is smaller than a wide area network.
	VPN (Virtual private network) - Encrypted connection over the internet form a device to a network. 

     







